Could the degree to which an instrument is distributed or accessed be a measurement of its own agency? Is the private repo https://github.com/michaelpalumbo/phd a caged artefact?

I think this line of questioning, from a eco-systemic perspective (for example), is more interesting than worrying too much about the medium of display (web vs. VR etc.) or a socio-political focus on “revealing code”*). Those things are all interesting, but in picking your focus I think this line of inquiry could bear a lot of interesting ideas/results. Your invocation of memetic agency from the PG paper begins to intersect with this nicely. 

*that said, I think Haworth presents a richer and more nuanced discussion of author function (w/r/t DSS) that is indeed highly relevant here.
Yes! And I would make one change to my question: 
Could the degree to which an instrument is distributed or accessible be a measurement of its own agency?
And, this leads me to also wonder whether my typo — accessed — is still relevant: Does a system’s agency depend on whether another agent is there to observe its action(s)? Can I invoke the “…if a tree falls in the forest, and no one is there to hear it, does it make a sound?” 

On the author function: Haworth highlights the need to focus on how a particular sound synthesis connects its users (he cites the link between Xenakis and noise music pioneers). I will note going forward the importance of having each co-designer/co-composer listen to the recording produced by the previous phase. 
On the orange highlight: Does the 'evolutionary temporal scale of music' mentioned here refer to the temporal period of the entire existence of music, or to music's subgenres or distinctive cultures of music? The Haworth paper ‘Sound Synthesis Procedures as Texts’ could extend this discussion. At the moment, I’m referring to “…what has yet to be considered [about Dynamic stochastic synthesis (DSS)] in great detail is the work this sound does in forging connections between the high modernism of its creator, Iannis Xenakis, and the contemporary noise underground. … This involves constructing a special kind of author function for DSS that, again, challenged the prevailing logic of secrecy, alchemy, and semblance in electroacoustic music.” 

