

"'Memetic agency' is grounded in Dawkins' theory of memes [4] and connects to temporally larger dynamic evolutionary systems 'in which cultural forms such as music emerge'. WHile it is not in the scope of this paper to explore instrumental systems across evolutionary temporal scales, it is important to note that marking the boundaries of the analytical frame for which we determine when a specific instrumental system came into being, as well as circumscribing the limits of where an instrumental system begins and ends is not a trivial endeavor and has consequences on the interpretations of its trajectories of influence, such as seen in the example provided above by [7]." (Javis & Van Nort 2018) 

Me: We could also enter into this subject through Born’s and Haworth's invocation of retentions and protentions, also at a higher temporal scale than Husserl’s original intention.

(....perhaps as a product of their time and place) (Doug 29/8/2018) Me: ah! that's fun, the very notion of protention-retention is contested in its usage across Born, Haworth, Gell, and Husserl (and, possibly me, if the protention-retention model is applied to the ouevre of the instrument. but I should be careful here, as Born applies the protention-retention model onto oeuvre of microsound -- which should be definied, is it a technique, a sound, a process?)

Born: "The pasts animated by microsound are not settled but contested, for, depending on the perspective, the genre enacts retentions not only to Xenakis but to a number of other putative forebears -- among them John Cage, Karlheinz Stockhausen, Herbert Eimert, Pierre Schaeffer, and the physicist Dennis Gabor." (Born 378)
  
Georgina Born writes that microsound animates pasts
I also read the final sentence of the above excerpt as intersecting with this question of an instrument’s own agency. That the ‘temporalizing practices’ are “...enabled or resisted, by the material and/or aesthetic ‘action' or ‘torque' exerted by nonhuman actors…” (ibid)  If we are to ask about an instrument's agency, is its repository part of its extended mind, and would it’s oeuvre contain each of its permutations via the ways a repo can be distributed? 

Distribution methods could exceed or exclude the boundaries of git’s own protocols i.e. I could transfer a document to you via usb key. Do Gell or others make space in an oeuvre for that which either hasn’t been documented or is documented but is not accessible (perhaps it is in an outdated format, proprietary, subject to copyright, etc)? 

I think we are getting into some interesting territory now.
